6.824 Spanner FAQ

Q: What is an atomic clock?

A: A very stable oscillator. There are two main technologies that go
by the name "atomic clock": rubidium clocks and cesium clocks. Both
exploit changes in the state of the outer electron, which involve
specific quanta of energy and thus wavelength. One can tune a signal
generator to precisely that wavelength by watching how excited the
electrons are. An atomic clock is just the oscillator part of a clock:
it produces a frequency that can cause a clock to tick at exactly the
right rate, but does not by itself know what time it is. To provide
time, an atomic clock must initially be synchronized with the time,
typically via GPS (which itself is fed the time by a bunch of atomic
clocks).

Q: What kind of atomic clock does Spanner use?

A: Sadly the paper doesn't say. Rubidium clocks are typically a few
thousand dollars (e.g. https://thinksrs.com/products/fs725.html).
Rubidium clocks drift by perhaps a few microseconds per week, so they
need to be re-synchronized to UTC (typically by GPS) every once in a
while. Cesium clocks cost perhaps $50,000; the HP 5071A is a good
example. A cesium clock doesn't drift. Of course, any one clock might
fail or suffer a power failure, so even with perfect cesium clocks you
still need more than one and the ability to synchronize to UTC. My
guess, based on price, is that Spanner uses rubidium clocks that are
synchronized with GPS receivers.

Q: How does TrueTime select intervals in a way that's guaranteed to
contain the correct time?

A: Here a simple example of the kind of reasoning it uses.

Suppose master time server S1 has the correct time (from GPS or an
atomic clock). S2 sends a request to S1 asking the time, and gets a
response. The response says "10:00:00 AM" and it arrives two seconds
after S2 sent the request (it's reasonable to assume that S2 can time
how long things take even though it doesn't know the absolute time).
Since the whole request/response took two seconds, S2 can conclude
that the network might have delayed the request by up to two seconds;
or delayed the response by up to two seconds; but no more than that.
So S2 can conclude that, at the moment it receives the response, that
the correct time must be between 10:00:00 and 10:00:02.

Q: How does external consistency relate to linearizability and
serializability?

A: External consistency seems to be equivalent to linearizability, but
applied to entire transactions rather than individual reads and
writes. External consistency also seems equivalent to strict
serializability, which is serializability with the added constraint
that the equivalent serial order must obey real time order. The
critical property is that if transaction T1 completes, and then
(afterwards in real time) transaction T2 starts, T2 must see T1's
writes.

Q: Why is external consistency desirable?

A: Suppose Hatshepsut changes the password on an account shared by her
workgroup, via a web server in a datacenter in San Jose. She whispers
the new password over the cubicle wall to her colleage Cassandra.
Cassandra logs into the account via a web server in a different
datacenter, in San Mateo. External consistency guarantees that
Cassandra will observe the change to the password, and not, for
example, see a stale replica.

Q: Could Spanner use Raft rather than Paxos?

A: Yes. At the level of this paper there is no difference. At the time
Spanner was being built, Raft didn't exist, and Google already had a
tuned and reliable Paxos implementation. Have a look at the paper
Paxos Made Live by Chandra et al.

Q: What is the purpose of Spanner's commit wait?

A: Commit wait ensures that a read/write transaction does not complete
until the time in its timestamp is guaranteed to have passed. That
means that a read/only transaction that starts after the read/write
transaction completes is guaranteed to have a higher timestamp, and
thus to see the read/write transaction's writes. This helps fulfil the
guarantee of external consistency: if T1 completes before T2 starts,
T2 will come after T1 in the equivalent serial order (i.e. T2 will see
T1's writes).

Q: Does anyone use Spanner?

A: It's said that hundreds of Google services depend on Spanner. The
paper talks about its use by Google's advertising system. Google's
Zanzibar Authorization system uses Spanner. It's offered as a service
to Google's cloud customers in the form of Cloud Spanner. The
CockroachDB open-source database is based on the Spanner design.

